# letsencrypt_glassfish
A script to simplify the installation and maintenance of Let's Encrypt certificates in Glassfish and Payara web servers.

This script is intended to simplify the installation of a Let's Encrypt certificate in a glassfish/payara server and provide an automated way of renewing all Let's Encrypt certificates on the server.

There exists a significant amount of documentation on the web which addresses this problem but I have found much of it to be ambiguous and incomplete.  This is an attempt to remove that ambiguity and incompleteness by giving a real world working example which can be modified to suit a particular situation.  Many of the necessary commands - to asadmin, certbot and keytool, for example - are often long and rather obscure.  By using this script, only the bare necessity of information needed (domains for certificate creation, server location, etc.) is provided by the user.  These often lengthy commands are automatically generated by the script so that mistakes and confusion are minimized.  Additionally, the script allows for inspection of the generated commands before they actually get executed in order for the user to have confidence that the generated commands are actually what are wanted.

I have broken the process of obtaining a Let's Encrypt certificate and installing it into the following steps, a few of which may not actually be necessary in a particular setting.  Skip any obviously unnecessary steps:

1. Customize the script to the particular local installation
   1. List of domains for which a certificate is to be created
   1. Glassfish/Payara setup (where they're located in your filesystem)
   1. Password for Glassfish/Payara
1. Change Glassfish/Payara to listen on ports 80 and 443
1. Generate the Let's Encrypt certification keys
1. Insure that the keystore password matches that of the server
1. Create a keystore
1. Import the created keystore into the Glassfish/Payara keystore
1. Apply the new certificate to the https listener
1. Update the domain SSL information
1. Set (if necessary) the server admin password.
1. Set up the https domain

Additionally, the script can be invoked periodically (typically via cron) to check to see if any domains need to be renewed and if so, renew them automatically.  See the latter part of the script for detail on how this is done.

I have used this script to create a new certificate for three domains in less than 5 minutes.  I have also used this script to automatically renew three domains via a cron job.

Note well:
As delivered, the script DOES ABSOLUTELY NOTHING!  This is intentional as initially, all actions have been commented out!  The recommended technique is to uncomment each step, observe what it will do, then actually do that.  For example, Step 1 sets the incoming ports to 80 and 443.  That will almost certainly be done at most one time, while generating certificates - especially if new domains are added, may be done multiple times - and checking for certificate renewal may well be done daily or weekly.  So, un-comment out the actions which you need to execute and re-comment those which will not be needed in the near future.

Good luck! Let me know if you have any problems. Mike Elliott - mre@m79.net
